---
title: "Finance Journals - Lugano 001"
subtitle: Lugano001
author: "Rafaq Abran"
date: 2021-08-23
---

I thought that it would be a good idea to perhaps journal some of my time in
Switzerland and the change in my career trajectory and goals for the future. As
such, this will be the first in a multiple series of journal entries for my
time at the universit√† della svizzera italiana (USI) studying for a Master's in
finance here and my reflections and thoughts on my time here.

I believe the most important thing to start off with is what I'm hoping to
achieve from this degree and look forward as opposed to start from my past and
go forward. It's a very typical thing where people start these types of
discussions about what they have done and their history but I blieve this
implicitly and expecility alters and taints one's perception of the future. It
alters it in the sense that the historical actions and experiences you have
will, in some sense, attempt to justify the experiences you will have in the
future which to me is a somewhat troubling notion. So, that being said, what do
I hope to achieve? A simple job? A rewarding career? Large sums of money? Well,
the way I am approaching my schooling, work, and life at the moment is that
knowledge is good; one should do work that somewhat stimulates them for the
largest remuneration and the lowest level of effort; and that rewards are
realized socially (either through family, friends or society).

Now, thats all well and good and a bit abstract, what about what I actually
have experienced and what I feel about it? Starting from the town, Lugano. The
location of it is spectacular, almost surrounded by mountains with a lake
adjacent to it. The result of this is mild weather and stunning views. Not only
that, it's obvious from the fact that it is a European city that there is a
large deal of history here which is evident from the architecture, monuments,
plaques, and other implicit and explicit factors you see when going through the
city. That in itself is quite unique to me as the locations I have lived have
history no doubt, but nothing as enriching and far spanning as what I have
experienced here. I will not discuss too much about city as there's travel
digests and vlogs that provide a more in depth look at these subjects.

Now the more important and difficult subject to discuss, the culture and the
people. I can hardly discuss this as my interactions with people here has been
limited due to my limited knowledge in italian, and quite frankly the exausting
nature of attempting to build connections and rapport with a large number of
people. That being said, my experience with the culture has been difficult, the
social norms here are a bit different than what I'm used to -- saying hello and
making small talk with strangers is unheard of and almost offensive to some
people. Building relationships has not been to difficult, perhaps because I am
in a University with similar aged people with somewhat similar ambitions and
hopes for the future. But it is very interesting the large number of Italians
I've met here (from Italy) have expressed some sort of disgust about Italy and
their love for Switzerland. This is even more interesting to me because after
discussing with some native Swiss-Germans they expressed the stereotype of the
Ticino people (Italian-Switzerland) of being disorderly, and obnoxious. To me
the Italian's I've met who study with me are not disorderly, or even obnoxious.
That being said, it is without a doubt more difficult for me to build
friendships and have rapport with Italians/Ticino people as opposed to the
German/Swiss-German people I have met thus far. I mention this to the few
Italian friends I have and they tell me that this is unfortuantely not unique,
that the Italian people like to stay within their small groups. I mentioned
that this does not bother me too much as it is true that I am a foreigner in
their canton (province), I thought that building some Italian knowledge would
assist in this matter but the reality is that I do not think it will make much
a difference. Perhaps it comes down to comfort, that it's just so much easier
for them to discuss and talk with Italians in Italian than to try to have to
translate consistently and interact with an outsider. 

Finally, the most important topic, the quailty of the education and my
assessment of the opportunities that the degree or the university will open.
Starting with the professors, I have been surprisingly impressed at the quality
of the teaching (aside from 2 professors). This first semester is quite basic
with the foundational concepts and although I am learning topics, it is much
slower than what I wanted. Regardless, the next 2 semesters will provide me
with the topics I have the most interest in. The big question for me right now
is the specialzation I will choose (Quantitative finance, banking, or fintech),
at this point I am leaning toward quantiative finance. Not because of my
engineering and heavy quantitative background but because of the fact that
although banking and fintech can be easily taught on the job, without a solid
foundation in quantitative techniques and statistics it is nearly impossible to
train a quant on the job (without wasting multiple weeks/months). There is an event going on with a roundtable with a bank to discuss careers in bankig which I do believe will be a good opportunity to finally meet some people practicing in the field.

That's all I have for the first month of school and the short time I've spent in Lugano so far.  



